bla bla bla
Beirut is the capital and largest city of Lebanon. No recent population census has been conducted, but 2007 estimates ranged from slightly more than 1 million to 2.2 million
 as part of Greater Beirut,[5] which makes it the third-largest city in the Levant region and the fifteenth-largest in the Arab world. Located on a peninsula at the midpoint of Lebanon's
Mediterranean coast, Beirut is an important regional seaport. 
It is one of the oldest cities in the world, having been inhabited for more than 5,000 years
The first historical mention of Beirut is found in the Amarna letters from the New Kingdom of Egypt, which date to the 15th century BC. 
Beirut is Lebanon's seat of government and plays a central role in the Lebanese economy, with most banks and corporations based in its Central District
 Badaro, Rue Verdun, Hamra, Ryad el Soleh street, and Achrafieh. Following the destructive Lebanese Civil War, Beirut's cultural landscape underwent major reconstruction.
Identified and graded for accountancy, advertising, banking, finance and law, Beirut is ranked as a Beta World City by the Globalization and World Cities Research Network.[9]
The tourism industry in Beirut has been historically important to the local economy and remains to this day to be a major source of revenue for the city, and Lebanon in general.
Before the Lebanese Civil War, Beirut was widely regarded as the "Paris of the Middle East,"[112] often cited as a financial and business hub where visitors could experience the 
Levantine Mediterranean culture. Beirut's diverse atmosphere and ancient history make it an important destination which is slowly rebuilding itself after continued turmoil. 
However, in recent times, certain countries, such as the United States, have frequently placed Lebanon, and Beirut in particular, on their travel warnings lists due to the many 
car bombings and orchestrated acts of political violence
The city's renovated airport is the Rafic Hariri International Airport, located in the southern suburbs. The Port of Beirut, one of the largest and most commercial
in the eastern Mediterranean, is another port of entry. As a final destination, Lebanon can be reached by ferry from Cyprus via the nearby city of Jounieh 
or by road from Damascus via the Beqaa valley in the east.[145] 
Beirut has frequent bus connections to other cities in Lebanon and major cities in Syria such as Homs and its capital Damascus. There are a number of different 
companies providing public transport in Lebanon. The publicly owned buses are managed by Office des Chemins de Fer et des Transports en Commun 
(OCFTC – "Railway and Public Transportation Authority"). Buses for northern destinations and Syria leave from Charles Helou Station.[146] 
The ministry of transport and public works purchased an extra 250 intra and inter-buses in 2012 to better serve regions outside the capital as well as 
congestion-choked Beirut, hoping to lessen the use of private cars.[citation needed] 
Beirut has also private buses that are provided by the Lebanese Commuting Company. 
In 2017, Beirut introduced a bike sharing service in certain areas of the city. 
The Beirut Central District (BCD) or Centre Ville is the name given to Beirut's historical and geographical core by "Solidere", the "vibrant financial,
 commercial, and administrative hub of the country."[95] It is an area thousands of years old, traditionally a focus of business, finance, culture and leisure.
 Its reconstruction constitutes one of the most ambitious contemporary urban developments.[96] Due to the devastation incurred on the city centre from the Lebanese Civil War, 
the Beirut Central District underwent a thorough reconstruction and development plan that gave it back its cultural and economic position in the region. Ever since, Beirut Central District
 has evolved into an integrated business and commercial environment and the focus of the financial activity in the region. That evolution was accompanied with the relocation of 
international organisations, reoccupation of civic and government buildings, expansion of financial activities, and establishment of regional headquarters and global firms in the city
Assessment of the demand for build-up space in the BCD has been done in reference to a number of macro-economic, demographic, and urban planning considerations at a time of marked need 
for new activity poles in the city, such as Souks, financial, cultural and recreational centres.[98] The district's total area is 4,690,000 square metres (50,482,740 square feet), the
majority of which is dedicated to residential space (1,924,000 square metres or 20,709,764 square feet).[99] The Beirut Central District contains over 60 gardens, squares and open 
spaces. These spaces comprise landscaped streets, gardens, historical squares, pedestrian areas and sea promenades thus totalling to an area of 96 acres (39 ha) of open spaces. 
The central district is Lebanon's prime location for shopping, entertainment, and dining. There are over 100 cafes, restaurants, pubs and nightclubs open in the Beirut Central District
and over 350 retail outlets distributed along its streets and quarters. Beirut Souks alone are home to over 200 stores and a handful of restaurants and cafes. Beirut Souks are the
Central District's old medieval market, recently renovated along with the original Hellenistic street grid that characterised the old souks and the area's historical landmarks along 
long vaulted shopping alleys and arcades.[100] Solidere, the company responsible for the reconstruction and renovation of the district, organises music and entertainment events all 
throughout the year like the Beirut Marathon, Fête de la Musique, Beirut Jazz Festival. 
However, the means of urban development in this particular area of the city was subject to much criticism and controversy. Rafic Hariri, who would later become prime minister, was the 
majority stakeholder of the company, which raises concerns of conflict of interest in the context of a public-private partnership.[101] Many of the expropriations that have made the 
project possible have been made at undervalued land rates, and partly paid in company share. Strict urbanisation laws were put in order to 
oblige people to sell and not renovate themselves.[102] Today, Solidere acts as a de facto municipality thus this quarter of the city is effectively privatised
It is for example forbidden to ride bikes on Zeituna Bay, a marina where many restaurants are located, and these laws are enforced by private security guards not national 
or municipal police. 
The project was also criticised for destroying some of the city's architectural and cultural heritage. "Among the hundreds of destroyed buildings were "the last Ottoman and medieval
remains in Beirut" wrote American University of Beirut professor Nabil Beyhum in the Journal The Beirut Review in 1992. Much of the damage had been done through unapproved
demolitions in the 1980s and early 1990s, bringing down "some of the capital's most significant buildings and structures," wrote UCLA professor Saree Makdisi in the journal,
Critical Inquiry, in 1997.".[103] Moreover, many of the traditional privately owned shops in the Beirut Downtown were replaced by luxury outlets and high-end restaurants that 
only few people could afford. And most of public spaces promised by Solidere since the start of the reconstruction, such as "The Garden of Forgiveness", a central park, and an 
archaeological museum, remain unfinished until today,[when?] putting into question the actual benefit of the project to the population.[103] 
Finally, the actual success of the project has recently[when?] been in doubt, given that large quarters of the BCD are today empty, due to strong military presence, the 
Nejmeh Square where the parliament is located is most frequently completely deserted, and the business located there have mostly moved.[104]